Introduction
==============================================================================================================================
Fancy is an easy to use object mapper for C# that uses data annotations. The primary purpose of Fancy is to easily map an object to a model and vice versa. For example, taking an Address generated by Entity Framework and mapping it to an Address view model for use in the web project of an ASP.NET MVC application.

Why?
==============================================================================================================================
Often times you want to map a model to the object it represents, or the other way around, in order to bridge the gap between different layers of an application without writing code to convert from one type to another. That's the fundamental problem any object mapping library solves.

However, other mapping libraries are kind of obtuse to use. They are extremely powerful, but have a steep learning curve and may require extensive configuration (which is what you were trying to get away from, right?)

Fancy is much simpler to configure and use than other object mappers, and unless you need the more advanced features provided by others it's probably more than enough.

How?
==============================================================================================================================
Fancy uses data annotations and reflection to do mapping. Data annotations are a powerful C# feature which allows you to decorate a property with meta data that other parts of the application, or libraries the application uses, can read.

Fancy uses Mirror attributes. The Mirror attribute specifies the target property to map to. For example, 

<pre>
<code>
[Mirror("Address.City")]
public string City { get; set; }
</code>
</pre>

Instructs Fancy that if you are mapping this model to or from an object of the "Address" class that you want the model's City property to equal the City property on the Address (or the other way around).

Notice the route in the annotation "Address.City" which is designed to look like how you'd access that property if you wrote more traditional code. You can go quite deep (up to 10 levels), so you could also target Address.State.Name, or Address.State.Capital.City (for example).

The actual mapping is done with 1 of 2 methods.

<pre>
<code>
FancyUtil.Mirror(object src, object model);
</code>
</pre>

Which is used to map from object -> model, or

<pre>
<code>
FancyUtil.Reflect(object model, object dest);
</code>
</pre>

which goes the opposite direction from model -> object.

In Fancy, *"model" means whatever class has the Mirror attributes*. Only the model needs the attributes and it will work in both cases. You can have as many Mirror attributes on a property in a model as you want. Of course, there's a lot more power here than that.

Features
==============================================================================================================================
Fancy can do quite a bit using these data annotations.
* Null substitution. When mapping, null can be substituted for another value. When mapping the other direction, that same value would be substituted for null.
* Recursive mapping. You can nest models inside models.
* IEnumerable mapping. You can map an IEnumerable of Address into a List of Address models.

Limitations
==============================================================================================================================
Fancy does have one major limitation. Everything about an annotation must be known at compile time. The consequence of this is that null substitution only works with constants. I'm working on a way to get around this problem without giving up the annotations.

Documentation
==============================================================================================================================
The unit tests provided should get you started as they provide examples of Fancy's features. I agree there needs to be a tutorial, but this project isn't quite there yet.

To see models decorated with Mirror attributes, just check *Testing\FancyMapper\Models* for examples. The classes the Mirror attributes reference are in *Testing\FancyMapper\Objects*.

Then take a look at the unit tests which demonstrate the various features of the library. And if you decide to modify something, the extensive unit test collection in this solution should leave you confident you haven't broken anything!

Installation
==============================================================================================================================
It's just a class library, so you can both build the library and add the DLL as a reference, or you could include the entire Fancy project (in which case you probably want to include the unit tests too, but you don't have to) in your solution and add it as a reference in your other projects.